Google's helpful content update have you
noticed that when you search some of the
content that is ranked on Google it's
just obviously written for search
engines and when you read that content
it provides little to no value
some of those pieces of content contain
even tons of keywords that don't really
flow within the article so why do people
write these kind of content pieces
well it's because they want more SEO
traffic but what's the problem with that
it creates a terrible experience for
users so what do Google do they release
the helpful content update in which
their goal is to rank non-helpful
content not as high they want to rank
that non-helpful content lower and they
want to rank The Helpful content which
is great and amazing and is not created
for search engines higher now here's
what Google has told us about the update
they first said focus on writing content
for people and they give us feedback
such as after reading your content will
someone leave feeling like they've
learned enough about the topic to help
them achieve their goals will someone
reading your content feel like they have
had a satisfying experience does your
content clearly demonstrate first-hand
expertise and depth of knowledge for
example expertise that comes from having
actually use a proctor service for
visiting a place second they said don't
focus on writing content for search
engines and here's what they mean by
that if is the content primarily to
attract people from search engines
rather than made for humans
are you producing lots of content on
different topics in hopes that some of
it might perform well in search results
are you mainly summarizing what others
have to say without adding much value
are you using extensive automation to
produce content on many topics so what
does all this that Google has told you
mean for you well number one Google
wants you to focus your content on a
specific industry or niche as Google
stated they prefer that you don't create
lots of content on different topics they
want you to focus
be the expert know what you're talking
about that way people get the most value
number two make sure your content is
executable if someone reads your content
and they don't have any specific
takeaway and they don't know what to do
next your content is failing what I like
to do and here's a quick solution for
this is at the end of my articles I
summarize my learnings to a conclusion
section and I label that section
conclusion and I Define my key takeaways
that way in case someone just wants to
skim they can just get the main points
from the conclusion number three
continually update your content things
change over time don't assume that if
you write a piece of content it'll keep
getting traffic as things get stale your
traffic will go down it's sad but it's
reality keep your content up to date
fresh relevant so it provides users with
the most benefit
when updating your content it's not
about how much you change it's more
about what do you need to do to keep it
amazing and that could be very little or
it could mean that you make a lot of
changes try to update your content at
least once a year and if you're confused
on how how to make content more amazing
search for your main keywords that your
article ranks for on Google or you wish
to rank for on Google and look at all
the people that are ranking that aren't
your website and see what they're doing
that's different than you are that'll
give you ideas on how to make your
content more amazing and ideally even
better than theirs number four add in
your secret sauce what do you know about
the others doll what have you
experienced that others haven't by
adding in your secret sauce and your
personal experiences you are more likely
to get Social shares backlinks and
generate more traffic if you're just
regurgitating what everyone else is
already saying then there's nothing
unique so in every content piece try to
add your personal experiences
that's how you beat the helpful content
update you just go above and beyond and
Delight users if you want my Ad Agency
to just do all this for you and fix your
current content as well as produce new
content for you check out NP digital
where we awarded an agency of the year
if you have any questions leave a
comment below I'm here to help if you
enjoy the video like it share it tell
people about it thank you very much